It is December 1989 in Bethel Township, Clark County, Ohio.  The opening scene takes place on the property owned by the parents of **JEREMY** **GILLEY**.  

**JEREMY GILLEY** is 18 years old and is a high school senior.  Because his best friend has the same name, everyone calls him **[[4.2 JEREMY GILLEY character bible|Gilley]]**, to avoid confusion.  **GILLEY** is very tall, lanky, awkward, and wears Coke-bottle style glasses that emphasize his nearsightedness.  **GILLEY**’s role in the band is front man, male vocals, and rhythm guitar.  At best, his guitar playing is diffident.  **GILLEY** has animal magnetism and incredible smoothness and charm with the ladies.

**GILLEY**’s best friend is **JEREMY Evans**, 17 years old.  **JEREMY** is a high school senior.  Physically, he’s 6’1” and is a good two inches shorter than his best friend.  **JEREMY** has an awkward looking mustache, and a severe buzz cut.  Even now, it’s clear that he’s losing his head of hair.  **JEREMY** is whip-smart, well-mannered, well-liked and wickedly competitive.  He’s a self-taught guitar player who needs significant practice to develop into a guitar hero. 

**[[4.3 JEFF EVANS character bible|Jeff Evans]]** is **JEREMY’s** older brother.  **JEFF** has just turned 19 years old and attends university.  **JEFF** is the same height as **JEREMY** but where **JEREMY** is thin and wiry, **JEFF** is broad-shouldered and solidly built.  **JEFF** wears silver wire framed glasses, has wild, slicked back hair, and is even smarter than his brother **JEREMY**.  **JEFF** is an extreme introvert, and an undiagnosed yet high functioning autistic young man.  He plays bass with slightly more skill than his younger brother but not by much.  Jeff is a bored college student at Wright State University.

**James Brown** is also 19 years old.  Brown always uses “**[[4.4 JIM BROWN character bible|Jim]]**” informally.  **JIM** is a tad bit shorter than both **JEFF** and **JEREMY**.  **JIM** has a rich baritone voice.  **JIM** is also very smart and a bit of an intellectual and has had a life-long fascination with percussion.  **JIM** has cobbled together his first real drum kit from thrift shows, garage sales, and pawn shops, and is proud about the accomplishment.  **JIM** has a cherubic round face with ruddy red cheeks and animated blue eyes.  **JIM** has started attending Wright State University.  

**BILL Davenport** is 18 years old and is a good friend of **GILLEY**’s.  Over the last two years, he’s started friendships with the Evans Brothers.  **BILL** is the shortest, yet most athletic of all the five men.  He’s built like a weightlifter.  Oddly, **BILL** refused to play sports during high school and is a band kid.  He already has mastered playing multiple instruments, but his favorite is the synthesizer.  **BILL** is a better musician right now than anyone else in the band because of years of practice.  **BILL** has luscious wavy hair that would fit well with any 1980’s hair band.  

**KATHY Espich** is a 19-year-old woman and has known **GILLEY**, **JEFF**, and **JIM** since elementary school.  **KATHY** is about 5’6”, far shorter than everyone else in the band.  She has medium length dirty blonde hair.  She met **GILLEY**, **JEFF** and **JIM** in the school district’s gifted classes.  **KATHY** is a very late bloomer and is extremely introverted at first.  She is painfully aware that she is the lone female in the band.  Worse, she knows that her bandmates treat her like she’s one of the guys, and she’s not very comfortable about that, but lacks the confidence to speak up.  **KATHY** hides her curves and breasts with layers of clothing.  She dresses like what will be called grunge in a couple of years’ time.  In a band composed of guys with hair trigger bad attitudes, **KATHY** is clearly the member of the band with the worst anger management issues.  **KATHY** is scraping up the time for classes at Clark Technical College.